feat(ListFormat): add `ListFormat` component (#4238)
dnbexperience/eufemia: packages/dnb-design-system-portal/src/docs/uilib/components/list-format/info.mdx

---
showTabs: true
---

> import { ListFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia/src'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Do we need this import?

Author: No no, thanks 🙇

## Import

```tsx
import { ListFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia'
```

## Description

> A ready-to-use list formatter. Use it wherever you have to display a list of strings, numbers, or elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ready-to-use list formatter. Use it wherever you have to display a list of strings, numbers, or React components (JSX).
```

Good reasons for why we have this is to:

- uniform the creation and formatting of lists.

> - Any other good reasons?

Author: ```suggestion
- Any other good reasons?
```

Reviewer: - Supports translation and localization.
- Built on top of web standards.

Author: Thanks, I added this now :)

---
showTabs: true
---

## Import

```tsx
import { ListFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia'
```

## Description

> A ready-to-use list formatter. Use it wherever you have to display a list of React components / JSX which includes strings, numbers, etc.

Author: ```suggestion
A ready-to-use list formatter. Use it wherever you have to display a list of React components (JSX) which includes strings, numbers, etc.
```

> A ready-to-use list formatter. Use it wherever you have to display a list of React components (JSX) which includes strings, numbers, etc.

Author: ```suggestion
A ready-to-use list formatter. Use it wherever you have to display a list of strings, numbers, or React components (JSX).
```

Good reasons for why we have this is to:

- uniform the creation and formatting of lists.
- Supports translation and localization.
- Built on top of web standards.

The component is designed to maximum display 10-20 items.
If you need to display more items than that, consider a different design, and perhaps using [Pagination](/uilib/components/pagination) and/or [InfinityScroller](/uilib/components/pagination/infinity-scroller)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `variant` property is set to a non-`text` variant, it uses [Lists](/uilib/elements/lists/) to render the given list.

```

## Formatting only

You can use the `listFormat` function without using the React Component `ListFormat`.

```ts

> import { listFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia/components/NumberFormat'

Author: I don't have any particular opinion on this.
I feel like we usually do `import { listFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia/components/ListFormat'`, can't remember seeing that we often do `ComponenName.function`.

> import { listFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia/components/NumberFormat'

Reviewer: Yes. The first one does always work. But I think, if we will make the import "easier" accessible, we may go for `ListFormat.format()` – and also in regards, that there will not come other functions.

> import { listFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia/components/NumberFormat'

Author: Fine by me 🤝

---
showTabs: true
---

## Import

```tsx
import { ListFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia'
```

## Description

A ready-to-use list formatter. Use it wherever you have to display a list of strings, numbers, or React components (JSX).

Good reasons for why we have this is to:

> - uniform the creation and formatting of lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Uniform the creation and formatting of lists.
```

- Supports translation and localization.
- Built on top of web standards.

The component is designed to maximum display 10-20 items.

> If you need to display more items than that, consider a different design, and perhaps using [Pagination](/uilib/components/pagination) and/or [InfinityScroller](/uilib/components/pagination/infinity-scroller)
> When the `variant` property is set to a non-`text` variant, it uses [Lists](/uilib/elements/lists/) to render the given list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to display more items than that, consider a different design, and perhaps using [Pagination](/uilib/components/pagination) and/or [InfinityScroller](/uilib/components/pagination/infinity-scroller).

When the `variant` property is set to `text` (default), the browser API [Intl.ListFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/ListFormat) will be used with additional React components (JSX) support.

When the `variant` is set to a non-`text` variant, it uses [Lists](/uilib/elements/lists/) to render the given list.
```

---
showTabs: true
---

## Import

```tsx
import { ListFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia'
```

## Description

A ready-to-use list formatter. Use it wherever you have to display a list of strings, numbers, or React components (JSX).

Good reasons for why we have this is to:

- Uniform the creation and formatting of lists.
- Supports translation and localization.
- Built on top of web standards.

The component is designed to maximum display 10-20 items.
If you need to display more items than that, consider a different design, and perhaps using [Pagination](/uilib/components/pagination) and/or [InfinityScroller](/uilib/components/pagination/infinity-scroller).

When the `variant` property is set to `text` (default), the browser API [Intl.ListFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/ListFormat) will be used with additional React components (JSX) support.

When the `variant` is set to a non-`text` variant, it uses [Lists](/uilib/elements/lists/) to render the given list.

## Formatting only

You can use the `listFormat` function without using the React Component `ListFormat`.

```ts

> import { listFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia/components/ListFormat'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { ListFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia'
```

Author: We kept the name `listFormat` for now 🙏

> return listFormat(myList, {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
return formatList(myList, {
```

Reviewer: Or should we go for only `format`? It's just, that it has a config property that is called `format`. Maybe we should find a better name for that one instead?

Author: We kept the name `listFormat` for now 🙏

  format: { type: 'disjunction' },
  locale: 'en-US',
})
```

See the following [demo](/uilib/components/list-format/demos/#using-listformat-function) for a more detailed example.

> The `listFormat` function supports an object with `{ format, locale }` as the second parameter. `format` and `locale` will accept the same values as documented in [properties](/uilib/components/list-format/properties/) of the `ListFormat` component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `formatList` function supports an object with `{ format, locale }` as the second parameter. `format` and `locale` will accept the same values as documented in [properties](/uilib/components/list-format/properties/) of the `ListFormat` component.
```

Author: We kept the name `listFormat` for now 🙏

> The `listFormat` function supports an object with `{ format, locale }` as the second parameter. `format` and `locale` will accept the same values as documented in [properties](/uilib/components/list-format/properties/) of the `ListFormat` component.

Author: ```suggestion
The `listFormat` function supports an object with `{ format, locale }` as the second parameter. `format` and `locale` will accept the same values as documented in [properties](/uilib/components/list-format/properties/) of the `ListFormat` component.
The function does not support `variant` and `listType`, as it does not return a list, but rather return a string(or JSX if that's provided).
```

---
showTabs: true
---

## Import

```tsx
import { ListFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia'
```

## Description

A ready-to-use list formatter. Use it wherever you have to display a list of strings, numbers, or React components (JSX).

Good reasons for why we have this is to:

- Uniform the creation and formatting of lists.
- Supports translation and localization.
- Built on top of web standards.

The component is designed to maximum display 10-20 items.
If you need to display more items than that, consider a different design, and perhaps using [Pagination](/uilib/components/pagination) and/or [InfinityScroller](/uilib/components/pagination/infinity-scroller).

When the `variant` property is set to `text` (default), the browser API [Intl.ListFormat](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl/ListFormat) will be used with additional React components (JSX) support.

When the `variant` is set to a non-`text` variant, it uses [Lists](/uilib/elements/lists/) to render the given list.

## Formatting only

> You can use the `listFormat` function without using the React Component `ListFormat`.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use the `listFormat` function without using the React Component `ListFormat`, to format strings, numbers, or React components (JSX) as string(or JSX).
```

```ts
import { listFormat } from '@dnb/eufemia/components/ListFormat'

return listFormat(myList, {
  format: { type: 'disjunction' },
  locale: 'en-US',
})
```

See the following [demo](/uilib/components/list-format/demos/#using-listformat-function) for a more detailed example.

The `listFormat` function supports an object with `{ format, locale }` as the second parameter. `format` and `locale` will accept the same values as documented in [properties](/uilib/components/list-format/properties/) of the `ListFormat` component.

> The function does not support `variant` and `listType`, as it does not return a list, but rather return a string(or JSX if that's provided).

Author: ```suggestion
The function does not support `variant` and `listType`, as it does not return a list, but rather return a string.
```
